Chapter 1  Track and Signal, A griffin or Godzilla ?

Why mythical creatures :

In understanding a large company with the ability to 'arm the workforce', we may need to see that we are creating mythical creatures

with multiple points of advantage over nature.  

We may not try to understand a pilot as a person but a bird with less limitations.

We may not try to understand a miner as a person but an altered mole who can go deeper into the earth.

Some workforces match closer to real animals yet some to mythical creatures.


The track circuit - the center of modern rail controversy :

In the modernization of rail systems we all have been asking, do we really need track circuits and how much do they really cost ?

One place in the world has already decided due to budget constraints and technology changing so fast, the removal of track circuits

is a must and not a choice anymore.  New standards are being developed and tested with GPS and data collection which supports the case of track circuits 

not being used at all in the future.  

Let us review and compare the mythical creatures we have created to work on these two separate systems, 

the track without a signal and the track with signals.

Are we creating, a griffin to protect our gold ; or a Godzilla to balance nature ? 




Chapter 2  The OCS clearance cult and Track workers as Griffins


We must give full and hard earned respect to the track department on the railway.  We have men and women with large hammers, 

extremely precise measuring tools and data collection down to a modern science.

We expect our Griffins to both walk and fly, posses great understanding of the larger picture, which is to move trains constantly.

Moving trains constantly gives us all the strongest eco system and allows pilots to fly higher and moles to dig deeper, at a faster pace than ever.

So we must give our griffins room to have 'rule of the sky' and inspect track on a more than regular basis with excellent eyes and sharp talons.

When the Griffin spreads their wings too fly ; 

or here - 

Physically inspect tracks between trains 

Use temperature monitoring devices on rails

Check temperature of axels and bearings on cars

AND create rail traffic controller train awareness with GPS monitoring on the train and last car of train.

We thus MUST :

-> run trains at lower speeds at larger separation distances

-> we are talking about  - The Great - Order Clearance System.

We may be tempted to expect the most efficient railway in that universe, no possible comparison.

The Griffins watch the rail closely and the cult leaders 

monitor and execute complex calculus on the collected data on the state of the rails, - NEARLY ALWAYS.


We can for fun, understand the collection of Griffins as a cult with Order Clearance as a religion.




Chapter 3 Signal Godzilla

When the universe created the earth, it decided the mightiest creatures have to be architects of nature.

Nature intends for long term commitments with the land and the safety of the growing people in that land.

When our great architects of nature decided to build something they only followed those rules and built a signal system for the trains.

They unknowingly created a very costly , Signal Godzilla.

We have Godzilla for balance of possible disaster.  We need the signal system to protect the people and the land.

When we built our Signal Godzilla we expect his most powerful weapon to be :

The Lofty - Track circuit.

The track circuit provides protection against broken rail, when nobody is physically inspecting it.

If a rail were to break and de-rail a long and valuable freight train, not only do we lose our money and credit,

we have destroyed nature and the land.

We expect our architects of the signal system to be 'NOT constantly inspecting like Griffins' - but to be inspecting in schedules no matter what.

Our Signal Godzilla has live monitoring to accomplish the minimal task of scheduled inspection.

We need our architects to be masters of :

Planning and time

Massive Technological shifts 

Picking thru complex failures and setting 'fail safe' systems back to fully functional

Which allows us,

Have more than one train in the block and

Moving trains at high speeds 

By use of rail break monitoring as a core belief in how the universe operates as BASIC REALITY.


We must expect Signal Godzilla to take, understand and prevent of all negative universal rail realities which are :

Trains can de rail at broken rail

Trains can hit each other when moving too fast


No standard created by man can avoid : 

If Something can go wrong, it WILL  ;  if you give it enough time.


Signal Godzilla is the ONLY PATH towards extending that time, but it comes with a cost, it is not free,

to break apart the rules of the universe.  This is the main job of the train company to the Signal Godzilla.

Prevent de-railment and train collision at the same time as moving trains.




Chapter 4  Two completely separate PHILOSOPHICAL approaches -  The OCS clearance cult vs the Signal Godzilla - 

The OCS Clearance cult :

OCS clearance cult relies on statistics.

Statistics are gambling and gambling is probability.

The OCS clearance cult at its heart has a belief that the universe can be understood and controlled through what is probable to happen to us.

"The train track measures perfectly and the track is in excellent shape. "

"I see it with my own eyes .  I see it even with Xray monitoring.  Run trains.  Long trains.  But...far apart to be safe."

The cult leaders will give you an excellent track, immense amounts of long trains at reduced speeds,

with standards created by what is probable and not what is the most safe.

What the cult offers in return is a cheaper, easier to build railway.  Something that appeals to most of the world.



The Signal Godzilla :

Signal Godzilla only believes the universe is a 50/50 bet, every new spin.  

The architects of Signal Godzilla do not think in terms of what is likely and have no way of doing this in their minds, they are limited.

They think if you spin the roulette wheel 8 times and get black 8 times in a row, predicting a red next spin is still a 50/50 chance.

The Cult relies on the idea that what happened before will effect the future, so they bet on a red, or whatever the statistics tell them.

Godzilla is not built this way, as he is always active and monitoring your track world, 

so he see's no need for gambling, 

a risk is ALWAYS PRESENT without

broken rail protection at high speeds.

What the Signal Godzilla and his architects offer is a more expensive railway which is MUCH SAFER 

but also risks collapsing your country, your labor supply and your bank account, if you cannot balance the forces of man made false disruption.





Chapter 5 Conclusions:

Griffins are priests of probabilistic faith. 

- Griffin Vision = standards for probable outcomes, GPS locations, axle counters and human inspections.

Godzilla is the symbol of fail-safe idealism.

- Godzilla Vision = Continuous occupancy checks, automatic, power control and fail-safe for the public. He never blinks or uses intuition.


And both are tasked with protecting humanity from the same unknowable future—just with RADICALLY DIFFERENT playbooks.




Where They Work Together:

- Freight corridors using mixed control (CTC/OCS blend) = Griffin leads, Godzilla shadows.

- Urban & high-speed rail = Godzilla is primary, Griffin stands ready for breach.

- Dark territory = Griffin-only zones, often myth-tuned to probability.

- Critical junctions / chokepoints = Godzilla anchors, Griffin interprets.



Who is the future ?

We ultimately are being asked by the railroad gods,  Want kind of future worker are we building ?

You may want to build an unknown hybrid creature that can still live on a monster island,

Or to continue to support both extremes, expanding operations for our OCS Griffin and the Signal Godzilla.


 





















































































